I can already start seeing some of the
kind of building patterns here with Solid.
I think there's a lot of
features in this demo.
I think the other one that's actually
probably most important here,
is our ability to filter the list based
on what's active and what's not active.
So, I think that's probably where
I'm gonna leave the feature side and
then we'll look a bit at what's
actually happening in the app and
understand kinda reflect a bit
on Solid's reactivity here.
So, let's see if we can add
our footer essentially.
And this footer, it kinda sneaks in
underneath inside the show still,
but it kinda sneaks in under
the section that we had before.
We're gonna make a footer.
With class="footer".
And Now that we have remaining count,
we can do a lot of cool stuff for
the rest of this.
We can span with the class="todo-count".
So, now, we'll be able to kinda show
how many we have left or whatnot.
So what we're gonna do is strong.
We're gonna go remainingCount and
then we're gonna put in here.
This is some kind of text formatting
stuff but for remainingCount equals one.
We're gonna say, item, otherwise,
we'll leave space here.
Otherwise, I don't know
why I chose to do those,
it doesn't really matter which
quotes I use but let's do these.
Item, otherwise, it's gonna say items.
And then Left.
So I don't know why I'm putting,
it's just,
Perfect, okay?
So now we're toggling and
we're getting our updated state.
Two items, one item left.
And then we're gonna add
A UL here, an unordered list, and
it's gonna have class filters.
And, essentially,
each list item looks a bit like this.
List item, and then
We're gonna have an anchor tag
that is going to use hash state.
So it's gonna have something like Active,
and
then it's gonna have classList, which
is gonna indicate that it's selected.
Again, object selected based on,
let's just call it showMode.
We don't have a name for this yet,
but we're gonna add that in a second.
And showMode() === "active", essentially.
So, let's create that signal so
it stops complaining at us a whole bunch.
We, actually,
need to close the anchor before I'm done.
So I'm gonna put all and
then close the anchor, okay.
All right get it to format it for
me, okay.
Yeah, interestingly enough, it's not
complaining at this not being defined
as of yet but that's because we haven't
actually added in yet Todo items.
So, we're gonna leverage that for
a second because,
actually, slash is going to be all.
And then we're going to basically
just copy this list item over and
over again to add, basically,
the three different filters, right?
There's All, there's Active.
And the this is just Active.
And then there, is it completed?
Yeah, completed.
All right.
And let's see here.
To wire this up,
we're gonna need another signal.
We're gonna need to showMode,
const showMode, setShowMode.
And we're gonna default to all,
I believe, yeah.
And all we need to do here is we're gonna
have to create an effect here, I believe,
in order to handle
the hash state of the URL.
We're also gonna create the filter itself
but we'll get to that in a moment.
So, let's define.
I'm gonna go down here above our JSX,
kind of our handler here.
So location, handler, let's call it.
So this is gonna be the function we call,
is the event handler here.
And we're going to simply
go setShowMode, and
we're actually gonna be able
to get the current location,
of the window location object.
We're gonna look at the #,
and we're gonna slice
the beginning off of it.
And then basically if we
have something there,
then we're gonna use
that to set the location.
Otherwise, we're just gonna
set it by default to all.
And we're going to
go window.addEventListener.
That's gonna listen to
our "hashchange" event.
And it's going to use our location
handler that we just wrote.
And then being a good citizen here,
we're gonna clean up so
that we can that's why we defined it separately.
So that we can go window.removeEventListener
for "hashchange".
We're gonna remove that,
remove our locationHandler.
locationHandler, okay, and
then we're gonna import onCleanup.
And refresh this hopefully.
Fun, code sandbox automatically
tried to import it for me.
Okay, and.
All right, now we have this and
let's see what happens
when I add some stuff.
So we're on all, so that's good so far.
If I switched to active,
it's still there, that's good.
But the problems we haven't
implemented the filter yet,
but we at least have the controls.
So, let's just continue onward and
implement our filter.
So, hopefully, it just works for us.
But, yeah, let's implement our filter.
So, here we go.
Const I'm gonna call this filterTodos,
okay?
And it's gonna take a list of todos and,
basically, it's gonna
just look at that state.
So it's gonna go like
if showMode() === "active",
Then we're gonna return todos().filter
todo where it's not completed.
Right, and, else if
showMode() === "completed".
We'll do basically exactly the opposite.
Right.
And todo's completed.
And then finally, well,
we can just return todos, okay.
And then, our filterTodos,
we still wanna show this if
there are any Todos cuz we
need to control the filters.
But here we can just go
filterTodos(todos()), all right?
And if all is good and well,
hopefully now we actually get
some more stuff going on.
So I'm gonna cross one of these out and
if I go to Active, okay,
we Do not have that working quite yet.
But why don't we have
that working quite yet?
Todo is not a function, beautiful.
Why is todos is not a function?
It's my mistake.
We already resolved this in the view.
We already passed the values through.
So, Hello world.
Okay, it's actually working.
It's funny, little bit of a delay there.
Okay, sweet.
So All, Active, Completed.
And we can see it'll toggle
through all of this, okay.
All right, but a bit long session here
on the coding side but, hopefully,
you can get a bit of an idea minus my
obvious stumbles here in a Stackblitz.
But we have a basic working Todo example.
I'm gonna add one last
feature to kind of finish it.
We're not gonna do the Edit
we're going to just
add the ability to clear
all the Todos in the list,
which is fairly simple
feature that kind of sits
at the very bottom of our section here.
Still inside the show, still inside
the footer, right below this ul,
we're just gonna to add another
show component cuz we only
need to show it when there are Todos,
to actually remove.
So I'm just gonna show, and
I believe the logic here
is remainingCount,
not equal todos().length.
And if that's the case, cuz we only need
the clear Todos when there are those,
we're gonna add a button
with "clear-completed".
And then has an onClick=,
which we haven't implemented yet.
And the, button, unsurprisingly
also says Clear completed, okay.
So, let's implement our
clearCompleted function here.
Add, remove, toggle, filter,
yeah, doesn't really
matter where it's going out of here,
const clearCompleted.
And this one, again,
should just be a setTodos
function where we go
through our todos and
we filter them based on the fact
that they are completed.
I'm second guessing myself now cuz I
keep on messing with this but I think,
yeah, we wanna keep the ones
that are not completed.
So it's not todo.completed.
So, if all of this is good,
we should be the go, Hello World.
Click on this Completed.
Now we have a Clear completed button.
The styles are getting a little compressed
here but if we click Clear completed,
it should just remove the one
that's completed, okay.
So, yeah, this is about 90% of
the Todo MVC example we made.